In 2013 I was messing around with more Basic compilers and I came across the Hisoft Colt Compiler. This was very interesting to me because I had a history of using the Softek Floating Point Compiler back in the eighties. The Colt Compiler was available but I did not have the budget go and buy it back then. Thirty years later I downloaded it with a load of other compilers to try out. I was amazed at how easy the Colt Compiler is to use and it also has built in sprites. I decided to try writing a game with it in my spare time. I wanted to write something quickly but was playable. I needed the graphics already done to speed up development time. I had been looking at another web site a few weeks previously which deals with unreleased games. I found a game that was never released based on the famous Horace. The game was called “Horace to the Rescue”. There was no source code available or any loading screen already created. There was talk about a loading screen that was available on the Teletext service. But I could not find anything on the internet to download this from. Horace was one of my Spectrum Heroes after Miner Willy so I decided to try and recreate what I imagined the game would have looked like. I already had the ability to rip the Horace graphics from other Horace games. This included the graphics for the enemies and I also managed to disassemble the sound code for the siren and bell sounds. This allowed me to obtain the media graphics and sound effects quickly. I didn’t want to call the game the original name just in case the original did come to light one day. So I decided to call it “My Rendition of Horace to the Rescue”. I wanted to write the game quickly so I chose to use Sinclair Basic and compile it with Hisoft Colt. The results were very close to the original Horace games regarding game play speed and the flickering graphics were even like the released games. I knew that the released Horace games were based on simple games such as PAC Man and Skiing. So I based this one on Hunchback as that was the only game concept that I am aware of where someone is being rescued and the game play is simple which fits with Horace quite well. I wanted everything to be just like the original games. So I included the flashing large letters and siren sound at the start screen. I also added the screen changing colour with siren at the game over sequence.
